# K for Knowledge: Cryptocurrency backed knowledge testing system
<div align="center">
Nikoloz Tvildiani <br>
Teimuraz Vanidze <br>
nikoloz.tvildiani@dtmu.edu.ge <br>
teimurav00@zedat.fu-berlin.de<br></div>

**Abstract**.

K would allow students to test their knowledge through multiple choice questions. By answering correctly new cryptocurrency is mined and divided between Student, University and Question creator. Answers and Questions are connected cryptographically, which allows third party check Answers correctness, without actually solving Question or without knowing Question text. Transactions are done by already tested conventional blockchain protocols. Transactions and Answers on questions are stored in Block and can’t be changed. K earned by students can be viewed as Marks, which are fungible and simultaneously Blockchain which can anywhere give proof of Students Knowledge in some Field. This allows high grade students to pay tuition fees with K, reserve as investment or exchange on crypto markets. This makes studying more attractive, which also increases sociat’s general education. Students all over the world work hard to get the best Knowledge and Still need to pay high fees for Educational Systems. Nevertheless main load during studying is on students their work is not appraise. We think, that studying is not differ from full time job, and students must also payed for their labour.  By this means, every K will be backed up with someone's Knowledge. No new K must be and will be created without proof of the existence of Knowledge. To address existing Cryptocurrency problems, latest advances in DeFi and Cryptographics are used. To address Energy use of Proof of work protocols in Bitcoin and Ethereum, Proof of Stake is used instead, consensus protocol of Cardano and Solana. Proof of Stake, first implemented in 2012 by PeerCoin, solves scalability problems and makes it possible to run nodes on devices with limited capabilities. To address Transaction Privacy, Proof of Knowledge is used as is in ZeroCash. To keep Blockchain small in size, the Mina Protocol  is used. To keep K uptodate decentralisation voting protocols are used, implemented in DAI.
## 1.Introduction
Getting the best quality education has come to rely almost exclusively on high priced Universities and availability of resources to pay their tuition. Do not forget the student's rent and day to day expenses. All this came to problems of Student's loans [^1], [^2], [^3] and increasing prices of institutions. This came to division(segregation) of society into classes based on their or their parents income ( insert statistics to prove). Where students from low income tend to get low quality education, which tends to be caused in the first place by the learning environment. (statistics where low income geographical zones get poor education) This perpetuates a loop of under-education, which leads to high rates of unemployment, which further deteriorates financial situation. Low income schools tend to get less funding (source) , the environment in these schools are less suitable for studying, which in fact affects the results of students.  Grants and incentives of high performance students intend to solve this problem, but the fact that students might need funds and a workable environment in the first place to become high grade students is often withheld.  

Knowledge assessment system is needed, which allows students to reveal their talent, help them during their journey when they most need it and not only reward them at the end. Same time not undermine the hard work  and achievements of already established high grade students. The system will work hand in hand with already acknowledged Institutions and will be viewed as addition to existing learning methods to achieve better student learning experience.  

### Notation
$S$ - Student  
$Q$ - Question  
$Q_{c}$ - Question creator  
$Q_t$ - Question content/text  
$Q_{rt}$ - Question correct answer  
$U$ - University


## 2.Problems of Question Request
Problems of Question Request is how students request Questions from Universities. Also, It contains how Questions are identified and what their Ids tell about Question content. If Students can access questions before Tests the purpose of Question is lost. One of the solutions is to use Double Blocks. So as students do not check answers beforehand or copy from peers, Answers can be published in next blocks. Like it answers to sudokus is published in next magazines. Time Delay proposed in Solana’s 5.12 Finality section [^9] can be used to prevent observing peers' answers. Problem for this solution is that Questions can’t be reused. Once a Question is written and an answer published everybody knows the answer. One can suggest to use hash for question content for identifier and salt everytime question is reused. In Double Block method actual minting will happen on block answer is published and if question is high responsibility verifying question may take longer time. We haven’t found an analogous of the Double Block method used somewhere, because of this security issues may arise. This method needs further research and testing.  

Some assumptions should be made to work on interaction between students and questions. First, that all humans are authenticated by Uni, so that one person has one account and vice versa. This issue is part of Proof of Identity and Proof of Personhood described in section 6.  

There are four possible relations between Question id and Question content. First, everyone, particularly students can easily get question content from Question id. This possibility has obvious aforesaid flaws.  Note that if Question id can be obtained from Question content, it is already a variation of the third possibility. So, intuitively in the first one Question id can’t be accessed from Question content. Second option is when everyone can get Question id by Q content. This means that, either Question content is hidden for everyone and when students request Question content by Question id , they are automatically writing that question, or Question content is in free access, but nobody can connect Question contents to Question ids, unless question id is called for testing. In case when Questions are hidden, blockchain can record that student requested question content by question id and if no answer from student will arrive in future block iterations, automatically assume aswared as wrong. Obviously once students get question content from question id, they can deduce their connection. Third possibility is when question id and question content can be accessed easily from both sides and Fourth, they both are unlikeable, except when a student requests a question.  

Students also may not be able to request a single Question, but rather a Pool of Questions( like Physics Questions) and  by introducing randomness , they no longer can see question ids from requests.

## 3.Problems of Public checker of Results (PCoR)
PCoR must be able to validate that S has written an answer without knowing Qt or Qrt, because S, alse can be PCoR. Universities will hold encrypted Questions without access to them in protocol like used in Ipfs[^4] and Filecoin [^5] , So that Anyone can be involved in storing encrypted Questions. Universities will ensure that Q exists and is accessible. To keep the Network decentralised everybody can host Questions or be Full node and will  be called U.  Key to open an encrypted Question will only have Qc - Question creator.  Qc is not involved in continuous network activity, pseudo keys will be Stored by U with Questions, but U will not have access to them and only when S provides account information with PoI, can S access key and view Q. So Qc is not needed in accessing Q, and can be offline. U must provide PoI of S in Block , if Block is valid.  After S, opening Q and accessing to Qt relation between Qt and Qrt must be like a maths problem, like Qt + Qrt = 0, and everybody can easily check that it holds. But gives away all information about Qt and Qrt. Also brute force checks can be done by S especially in multiple choice questions.  There is quite a grounded suspicion that this problem can be solved by PoK. If Qt  + Qrt gives some function Fr, which is just a random number it will not give S any clue if Qrt is correct. Fr can be checked when a new Blockstamp is published, which also must be random and unpredictable. So that Fr(Bsmp)= public answer like 0.  Finding Qrt to Qt is like finding the public key to an Encrypted message, but the message is random. If the pool of Qrt is small, S can't validate it.   

Fr will not be random in the sense that it uses an algorithm from blind signature algorithm[^6] and randomness from examples of randao schemes[^7]. More precisely commuting function to create Fr and Bsmp.  

Way to maintain questions classified before answers are released is that, Question creator generates paired keys for each Question and encrypts random value Fr with masterkey. Then the Question creator publishes Question text attached with encryption of Fr and Question answers with random public keys, so that only the right Answer has the correct Question public key. Students decrypt Question encryption with a public key connected to Answer, which they think is correct and publish their Fr. After Testing is done, the Question creator publishes correct Fr, so everybody with the correct answer gets rewards. There are obvious flaws in this type of method. First, students can see which answer others are choosing. Students, when they are writing questions in a controlled environment, may not be able to use technology to get access to what other students are writing. But Environment as a whole can be compromised by the University and students knowing what students in other locations are writing at the same moment, may be an easy gate for them to access correct answers. Second, is inconvenience for Question creators who must then publish Question answers, where our objection for Question creators to write questions and further involvement from them to operate Questions be needless. Third, after publishing Fr,  the same Question is not reusable.  This may create a shortage of questions for Students and diminish interest in K overall. Here comes handy, that if Students can not access Question texts by Question ids, Question creators can rebulish same Question text with different Questions ids and keys. Fours, is again that answers of students are open and connected to their addresses. That may repress some students if they do not score well or change their mind to write tests in future. In summary this approach manages to classify Question text and Question answers and can be used as a starting point to  develop a more complete testing system.  
Second way is to use blind signature algorithm which has been used for a long time in elections. Also algorithm provides security of Question text and conceives Students choices, it still needs interaction from Question creator. This may be avoided so that all interaction from Question creators be moved on the shoulders of collective Universities nodes, so that they still don’t have access to correct answers. 

## 4.Ancestors (Smileycoin)

   In 2014 there was released the first cryptocurrency in Education system. The Currency beared the apt name Smileycoin or SMLY and was used within the tutor-web online learning platform.Rewards within the tutor-web system are tuned by giving students SMLY when certain levels of achievement are reached. Initially these were pre-specified, later optionally chosen from a Uni form distribution each time a student started a new topic and finally optionally from a gamma density for a wider range of experimental options. Encouragement is displayed as students answer questions “Win x SMLY if you ace this lecture, bonus y SMLY for acing whole tutorial.”  
  … 
   The Smileycoin was initially developed as a method to test reward mechanisms in the tutor-web educational system and this remains the coin’s primary purpose. At the outset this is like any other “funny money,” i.e. it is home made and has no intrinsic value.
## 5.Question reward
In order to avoid generating pseudo accounts and malicious use of the same question several times for profit gain several defence mechanisms are used. First of all is proof of identity. When students create an account, they must provide personal information, which is not stored or shared across networks. It may store encrypted information about students personal data, like national IDs, online face recognition CAPTCHA solving, and social network identification, to identify that student is not already registered. If a user tries to register a second time, the available hash of their unique personal identifier will  tell sistem that the user already has an account.  Second method is to require a fund  minimum amount <span>  </span>3 before creating. This makes creating new pseudo accounts and cheating by writing the same questions multiple times costly. This still allows students to generate profit if overall repeated questions pool in sum excited funds. For example if  students can write questions which will give them <span></span>4.  They can create two accounts for <span></span>6 and rewrite questions to gain a profit of <span></span>2. Minimal funds will require starting capital before creating multiple accounts and gaining profit. This will lower chances of creating thousands of accounts and writing unchallenging questions like “what is 1 + 1?”  Third is having one total value for questions pools which will over time decrease as the number of students who correctly answer questions increase. If total number for correct answers is n, every time new correct answers is added new value of questions can  be calculated by formula:  
$$V_{new}=V_{old} \frac{n+1}{2n}  $$
This will prevent malicious students from gaining any reward if they try to rewrite questions. For example if there are only two correct answers and the sum value of questions is <span></span>10. If one of the students rewrites the question, the new total value will be <span></span>7,5 and the cheated student will still hold <span></span>5. If we consider that cheaters need to pay for creating a new account they are losing money by doing so. 
## 6.Proof of Stake
Proof of stake which relies on the concept of coin age was part of discussion among cryptocurrency pioneers as early as 2010. Coin age can be calculated as currency age times currency amount and  used as a measure of trust as hash based work in Bitcoin. First proof of stake working Crypto-Currency model Peercoin was introduced by King and Nadal in 2012. They used a hybrid approach to block consensus using Proof-of-work and Proof-of-Stake. Proof-of-work provides first needed as genesis minting platform on, which  will cointake special transactions will be built. Besides, they proposed a pure proof-of-stake system using a process similar to stock market initial public offer(IPO). Peercoin choses main chain with highest total consumed coin age as Main Chain Protocol, in difference with more modern PoS cryptocurrencies where Block is chosen randomly weighted with Stake contribution. They also first used the term proof-of-excellence, which may be taken as the genesis of K. “Under this system typically a tournament is  held periodically to mint coins based on the performance of tournament participants, mimicking the prizes of real-life tournaments.  Although this system tends to consume energy as well when artificial intelligence excels at the game involved, we still found the concept interesting even under such situation as it provides a somewhat intelligent form of energy consumption.”[^8] We also acknowledge problems of checkpoint argue by Laurie (2011) and think to found new way to decentralise mechanism to solidify the block chain history. If nodes hold headers of blocks randomly, also hash of two consecutive random blocks and four random consecutive blocks and so on until the whole block chain is covered and broadcast them with transactions or as an answer to some network activity, overall cost to reorganise blockchain becomes unattainable.
## 7.Proof of Identity
The hard part of the system is designing protocols which can in non centralised manner provide proof of students.  Easy cut would be to use provided information from universities. But as the role of universities can be done by anyone, trust in universities vanishes.  There is an idea to divide universities by tiers or by the responsibility they are taking. High responsibility universities will provide more profound proof of identity of their students, also checking their fairness and environment where testing is done. Ideal high responsibility university is one, who has appropriate testing space. It must check students and ensure that the person who is taking the exam is one who is claimed to be. Students must provide fingerprints, FaceId information, Nation Id card and phone number and Universities must send proof on blockchain, that information that student provided matches information on blockchain for that person. This simultaneously raises several problems. One of the obvious ones is the amount of information stored in the blockchain. To make sure that universities will not create identity forgeries in order to generate blocks without actually performing testings. One obstacle to universities to mine blocks without students would be that they still will need solve power in order to answer questions correctly. As Universities only store encrypted questions and have no access to answers it would not be easy for them to generate blocks. Still with advancements in AI and considering that one University can store their own questions, use of PoI is indecent.  To provide the highest security  we should consider universities with no trust. One such tiers of universities would be with lowest responsibilities. It would  be just server runned one one individual, whose goal is to provide web home testing. Systems like that obviously will not provide any security and rewards to questions will be correspondingly not as high as in high responsibility universities. Eventually, the stability of the low responsibility universities testing system relies on initial trust of creating accounts. Low responsibility universities must be sure that an id student provides a valid account address, during its creation PoI was checked and it is their unique address. Low responsibility universities can’t be sure and are not obligated to prove that the person who writes the test is the address owner. This can’t be done in boundaries of low responsibility unless the methods used by ProProctor™ are considered.  Later can be termed as middle responsibility universities and rewards for their test would be higher that low responsibility universities, but less that high responsibility universities. To provide initial account authorization with PoI,  Information is divided and sent to random nodes to provide validation. This is a node so that no one would get connected to personal identity. If one gets an Image from a person it would know the name or other information about the image and the only obligation for the validator would be to identify that image as a person. It can be done through CAPTCHA mechanism as already validated user login in the system or automatically by AI. but using AI in a decentralised manner can introduce a non-negligible amount of complexity or deviate from decentralisation. 


[^1]: [How student debt became a  1.6 trillion crisis](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/12/how-student-debt-became-a-1point6-trillion-crisis.html)

[^2]: [Loans | Federal Student Aid](https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans)

[^3]: [All student debt in the US, visualized - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NXHwelwmQPA&ab_channel=Vox)  

[^4]: [IPFS Powers the Distributed Web](https://ipfs.io/)  

[&5]: [“Filecoin: A Decentralized Storage Network”](https://filecoin.io/) 

[^6]: David Chaum. Blind signatures for untraceable payments. In Proceedings of the 2nd Annual International Cryptology  Conference, CRYPTO ’82, pages 199–203, 1982.   

[^7]: randao/randao: RANDAO: A DAO working as RNG of Ethereum [github.com](https://github.com/randao/randao) 

[^8]: [PPCoin: Peer-to-Peer Crypto-Currency with Proof-of-Stake](https://decred.org/research/king2012.pdf)  

[^9]: [Solana WhitePaper](https://solana.com/solana-whitepaper.pdf)  
